1. Personal Computing Environment :  In personal computing environment there is a stand-alone machine. Complete program resides on computer and 
executed there. Different stand-alone machines that constitute a personal computing environment are laptops, mobiles, printers, computer systems, 
scanners etc. That we use at our homes and offices.

2. Time-Sharing Computing Environment : In Time Sharing Computing Environment multiple users share system simultaneously. Different users 
(different processes) are allotted different time slice and processor switches rapidly among users according to it. For example, student listening 
to music while coding something in an IDE. Windows 95 and later versions, Unix, IOS, Linux operating systems are the examples of this time sharing 
computing environment.

3. Client Server Computing Environment : In client server computing environment two machines are involved i.e., client machine and server machine, 
sometime same machine also serve as client and server. In this computing environment client requests resource/service and server provides that
respective resource/service. A server can provide service to multiple clients at a time and here mainly communication happens through computer 
network.

4. Distributed Computing Environment : In a distributed computing environment multiple nodes are connected together using network but physically 
they are separated. A single task is performed by different functional units of different nodes of distributed unit. Here different programs of an 
application run simultaneously on different nodes, and communication happens in between different nodes of this system over network to solve task.

5. Grid Computing Environment : In grid computing environment, multiple computers from different locations works on single problem. In this system 
set of computer nodes running in cluster jointly perform a given task by applying resources of multiple computers/nodes. It is network of computing 
environment where several scattered resources provide running environment for single task.

6. Cloud Computing Environment : In cloud computing environment on demand availability of computer system resources like processing and storage are
availed. Here computing is not done in individual technology or computer rather it is computed in cloud of computers where all required resources
are provided by cloud vendor. This environment primarily comprised of three services 

7. Cluster Computing Environment : In cluster computing environment cluster performs task where cluster is a set of loosely or tightly connected 
computers that work together. It is viewed as single system and performs task parallelly that’s why also it is similar to parallel computing 
environment. Cluster aware applications are especially used in cluster computing environment.
